Thoughts before reading up on anything:

Find the shortest possible route between N places that:
- Starts at place a and ends at place a
- Visits all other places exactly once

Given:
Distance ij between two places i and j for all possible combinations
-> Distance matrix D with N^2 elements (of which N are NaN, so N^2-N number
elements)

Of these, N have to be travelled in any solution (subset D_travelled with
N elements)
The solution is a loop, therefore it doesn't matter which is the
starting/ending point
Each place i is involved in two distance elements in D_travelled (to and from)

Possible algorithm issues: Ensure each place gets visited (no loops of size
<N)


Possible matrix of distances D:

	a	b	c	..	N

a	NaN	ab	ac	..	aN

b	ab	NaN	bc	..	bN

c	ac	bc	NaN	..	cN

..	..	..	..	..	..

N	aN	bN	cN	..	NaN



Now the algorithm would have to pick 2N indices with a number (non NaN) value so
that:
1) In each row/column, two elements get picked (either row or column would
   probably work)
2) For each index D[i:j] that gets picked, the corresponding D[j:i] also has to
   be picked

All combinations that fulfill 1 and 2 are possible routes for the salesperson.
In order to get the shortest one:

3) The sum of the picked elements is the lowest of all possible combinations
   that fulfill 1 & 2

This is not very practical, possible better way for the exact solution:
1) Create all permutations of the index vector (places)
2) In every permutation vector, sum for each element i the value of D that
corresponds to i:i+1 (where i is ith element of permutation vector, used for
indexing D); possible issue: For symmetric problem (which it is with only
distances, we have to leave out the permutation that are mirrored/backwards
ways of other permutations)
3) Take the permutation with the shortest sum


Number of possible combinations: (N-1)!/2  ((N-1)! paths starting from any
place i with forward and backward paths being equivalent)
- summing elements for all possibilities is not viable for large N (e.g. if
  N=10 it will 9!/2 = 181440 combinations)
-> How to get to the solution without doing that?

After skimming through the reference
(https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/url/norvig.com/ipython/TSP.ipynb): It is not
possible to find the exact solution without calculating all of them.
However, a good solution can be found with different strategies, I didn't look
into them in detail, instead I will choose one by myself (from trying on
paper) and see how it turns out


Possibilities (tested on paper):
a) Start at a point and always go the shortest way. Issue: The last point can
be really far away if it's an outlier. Possibly alter this method to integrate
outliers into the nearest path
b) For each point, choose the 2 closest. If it's a match, keep it, otherwise,
retry (excluding points that are "full"). This can easily yield smaller loops
that don't combine to one route, therefore one would have to integrate them in
the end. Might be pretty complicated
c) Take subsets of the dataset and calculate the exact solutions for these,
integrate them somehow (seems pretty difficult to me)
 
-> Program should be able to put out exact solution for smaller datasets and
use another method above a certain threshhold

Two datasets:
Sweden: 10 cities
Germany: 15 cities
Put the threshhold at 10 cities and have it use the exact one only for those
<= this amount  


Exact solution:
How to get from the permutation to the path length? If I search the element
for each pair of places in the permutation for each permutation, this is A LOT
of iterations
Better:
Reshape the matrix by the permutation's index vector (columns) and index
vector starting from 2nd position (rows), then I can just sum over the
diagonal - is this more or less calculation effort than iterating? Feels like
less, but not sure (test this!!)

It appears to be very slow, which is expected, since each iteration has to
deal with the entire matrix instead of just the distance values that belong to
this iteration.
This would be better if one would have the cities as objects and absolute
positions of the cities, but this probably only works if it's about direct distances
and not time, car distances, etc? 
The general case is very slow for 10 cities on first test, therefore I have to
a) try to speed it up and
b) change the number of places that are below the threshhold for using the
exact method

Found a bug in the exact program, fixed it, however it is still slow
One issue that will cut the calculation time: The permutations solution first
makes ALL permutations, then filters them afterwards - is it possible to make
only the needed ones?
ALSO on further observations: There are still too many possibilities. There
should be (N-1)!/2 but there are N!/2 with my method ("shifted" loops are not
avoided) - how to avoid this?
Essentially, I only need the subset of permutations with fixed first position
(e.g. for A,B,C it would be A,B,C and A,C,B), but the permutations tool
doesn't have an option to fix A - make a smaller vector minus the first/last
one and then append?

Added a new dataset (Eurotrip) with fewer cities for size threshhold test
5 cities: computes very fast
6 cities: computes very fast
7 cities: computes very fast
8 cities: relatively fast, but you have to wait
-> 8 as the new threshhold: Above 8, use approximation
